---
layout: post
title: Me in ME!
excerpt: "Read a girl address the many stereotypes attached with the females in Mechanical Engineering and how she plans to break them all."
modified: 2015-11-29
tags: []
comments: true
pinned: true
author: preeti
image:
  feature: me_in_me.jpg
---




>Long gone is the era in which society scoffs at female engineers. Yet, after beginning my B-Tech in mechanical engineering, my decision has been subjected to the utmost scrutiny by all in sight.

Why, they wonder, would a girl so short and slim pick mechanical engineering of all branches? Does she not realise that it is only suitable for 7 foot, muscle-bound people, since mechanical engineers are expected to lift boulders with their bare hands?

The male populace decide to interview this strange specimen that has appeared in their midst. “So...You are actually interested in mechanical engineering?” they ask in awe. When I reply in the affirmative, they continue, “But you are the only one who is!”. Thinking they had got me now, having put forward such a brilliant point, they withdraw.

Shrouded in misconceptions, nobody can fathom the blatant truth of my answer. I have decided to take this opportunity to dispel some myths. What mechanical engineers actually do is more about design and analysis; no boulders involved.  If there were, we would probably make a robot to lift them anyway.

I don’t want to pull out my long list of women who have achieved great things in science and engineering as almost everybody does. I can almost hear, “Oh, so cliché!”  Or even worse, to be told  “But, those are exceptions!”
I am waiting for a time when the news of a woman in technology is not met with shock and apprehension. 

**Announcement: The girls are coming, and they can be awesome!**

